Ajax is a technology for asynchronous HTTP requests.
AMD is a standard defining how to load JavaScript libraries or modules asynchronously.
AngularJS is a structural framework for dynamic web apps.
Apache Cordova is a popular mobile application development framework originally created by Nitobi.
Arity is the number of arguments of a function.
Babel is a JavaScript transformation toolkit which started as an ECMAScript 2015 / ES6 code translator (transpiler).
Backbone is a structural framework for dynamic web apps.
BEM is a methodology and libraries developed and used at Yandex for building user interfaces.
Bluebird is a fully featured Promise library with focus on innovative features and performance.
Bower is a package manager for front-end dependencies.
Broccoli is a fast and reliable asset pipeline.
Browserify is a tool making possible to use the `require` function from Node.js within the browser.
Brunch is a tool focusing on the production of deployment-ready files from development files.
Canvas is an HTML element for graphic applications in 2D or 3D.
Chai is an assertion library used with a JavaScript testing framework.
Chakra is a JavaScript engine developed by Microsoft for its Edge browser which could also be used with Node.js instead of V8.
Closure is a way of referencing variables from a child function while retaining their value even if it changes in the parent function.
Closure Compiler is a JavaScript checker and optimizer.
Coffeescript is a language that compiles into JavaScript.
CommonJS is a project with the goal of specifying an ecosystem for JavaScript outside the browser (for example, on the server or for native desktop applications).
CORS is a way for a server to make things accessible to pages hosted on other domains.
CouchDB is a NoSQL database with JavaScript as query language and HTTP as API.
Currying is the process to transform a function with multiple parameters into a chain of functions of one parameter.
D3.js is a library for manipulating documents based on data.
Design Patterns is a general reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem within a given context in software design.
DOM is a platform- and language-neutral interface that allow programs and scripts to dynamically access and update the content, structure and style of documents.
ECMAScript (ES) is the standardized specification of the scripting language used by JavaScript.
Electron is a framework based on Node.js lets you write cross-platform desktop applications using JS, HTML and CSS.
Ember is an application framework based on the model-view-controller pattern.
ESLint is a JavaScript code linter.
Express is a fast, un-opinionated, minimalist web framework for Node.js.
Ext JS is a pure JavaScript application framework for building interactive cross platform web applications.
Facade Pattern is a software design pattern commonly used with object-oriented programming. The name is by analogy to an architectural facade.
Factory Pattern is a creational pattern that uses factory methods to deal with the problem of creating objects without having to specify the exact class of the object that will be created.
Falcor is a JavaScript library for efficient data fetching.
Flow is a static type checker, designed to find type errors in JavaScript programs.
Flux is an application structure focusing on improved data flow.
Four is a framework to develop 3D content for the web.
Grunt is a task runner aiming at automating tedious and possibly complex tasks.
Gulp is a task runner aiming at automating tedious and possibly complex tasks.
Hapi is a Node JS framework for writing services and more.
Hoisting is an action performed by the JavaScript interpreter that moves function and variable declarations to the top of their containing scope.
IIFE is a function that gets called immediately after declaration.
Ionic is a HTML5 mobile framework to build beautiful hybrid native mobile applications using AngularJS and Cordova.
Isomorphic is an application is said to be isomorphic (universal) when its code can run both in the client and the server.
Jasmine is a testing framework for Behaviour-Driven Development.
jQuery is a fast, small, and feature-rich client-side library.
JSCS is a JavaScript code linter.
JSHint is a JavaScript code linter.
JSLint is a JavaScript code linter.
JSON-LD is JSON for Linked Data.
JSON is a lightweight data-interchange format.
JSPM is like npm with its own build system and multiple resources management.
JSX is an XML-like syntax extension to JavaScript.
Knockout is a library that helps developers creating user interfaces with a clean underlying data model.
LocalForage is a fast and simple storage library for JavaScript.
Lodash is an utility toolkit to extend JavaScript primitive types.
MEAN is the technology stack MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, and Node.js.
Mediator Pattern is an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact.
Memoize is an optimization used to speed up consecutive function calls by caching the result of calls with identical input.
Metalsmith is a simple, pluggable static site generator.
Meteor is a JavaScript web framework that allows rapid prototypic web development.
Mocha is an extensible testing framework for Test-Driven Development.
Modernizr is a browser feature detection library, useful to modify page styles when a feature is not available in the browser.
Module Pattern is a design pattern used to implement the concept of software modules, defined by modular programming, in a programming language with incomplete direct support for the concept.
Moment.js is a library to parse, validate, manipulate and display dates.
MongoDB is a Javascript NoSQL database.
MooTools is a collection of JavaScript utilities designed for the intermediate to advanced JavaScript developer. It allows you to write powerful and flexible code with its elegant, well documented, and coherent APIs.
Nightmare is a high-level browser automation library.
NightwatchJS is a framework for browser automated testing.
Node.js is a cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side applications built on V8 engine.
Npm is a utility to help publishing packages to, and installing from, an npm repository.
Nvm is a utility to help run multiple versions of Node.js on the same machine.
Observer Pattern is a software design pattern in which an object, called the subject, maintains a list of its dependents, called observers, and notifies them automatically of any state changes, usually by calling one of their methods.
Passport.js is a simple authentication middleware.
PhantomJS is a scripted, headless browser used for automating web page interaction.
Polymer is Google’s library for creating Web Components.
PostCSS is a tool to transform CSS styles using JavaScript plugins; plugins include autoprefixer, future CSS transpiling, CSS linting and media queries.
Promise is a proxy for a value not necessarily known immediately but that will eventually be resolved.
Prototype is a JavaScript framework that aims to ease development of dynamic web applications. It offers a familiar class-style OO framework, extensive Ajax support, higher-order programming constructs, and easy DOM manipulation.
Prototype Pattern is a creational design pattern in software development. It is used when the type of objects to create is determined by a prototypical instance, which is cloned to produce new objects.
Pure Function is a functional programming paradigm that ensures that a function has some strict properties..
Q is a library to create and manage promises.
QUnit is a powerful, easy-to-use JavaScript unit testing framework.
Ramda is a practical functional library for JavaScript programmers.
React is a library developed and used at Facebook for building user interfaces.
Redux is a predictable state container for apps.
RequireJS is a browser based module loader using AMD.
Revealing Module Pattern is a design pattern conceptually based on the Module Pattern. The only difference is that the revealing module pattern was engineered as a way to ensure that all methods and variables are kept private until they are explicitly exposed.
Rnpm is a package manager to ease React Native development.
RxJS is a library for asynchronous programming using observable streams.
Sails is a realtime MVC Framework for Node.js.
Singleton Pattern is a design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one object.
Three.js is a lightweight 3D library to create and display animated 3D computer graphics on a Web browser.
TypeScript is a super-set of the JavaScript language that introduces types.
UMD is a pattern of universal module definition for JavaScript modules.
Underscore is a swiss army knife, focusing on helper methods for most built-in objects.
Universal is an application is said to be universal (isomorphic) when its code can run both in the client and the server.
V8 is Google’s open source JavaScript engine. It’s what Chrome is running, but it’s also used for other projects like Node.js and MongoDB.
Vanilla is a term for library/framework free JavaScript.
Virtual DOM is a pattern in which a JavaScript representation of the desired DOM is created and the framework sorts out the details of how to make it happen.
VueJS is a library for creating user interfaces based on data models.
WebGL is a JavaScript API for rendering interactive 3D and 2D graphics within any compatible web browser without the use of plug-ins.
Webpack is a dependency manager with a friendly and fast development environment, simplifying a lot of common tasks.
XHR is XMLHttpRequest is an API that provides client functionality for transferring data between a client and a server without page refresh.
Yeoman is a generator builder to speed up the setup and installation process of a project or part of a project.
Zepto is a lightweight jQuery clone, without all the browser-compatibility specific code.
SJSJ is a community-driven attempt at explaining the loads of buzzwords making the current JavaScript ecosystem in a few simple words. The idea is not to replace individual documentations, but to act as some kind of glossary that can be easily referenced.
